5. Risks. The New Worlds Corporation (NWC) prides itself on the safety and reliability of its colonization ships. However, space travel remains inherently risky.  It is important that you understand these risks prior to participating in any colonization effort.

…

5.3. Stranding. All NWC ships adhere to the International Standard Stranding Protocol (ISSP) developed in response to the I.S.S. Terra Nova stranding of 2156. ISSP is designed to preserve as many lives as possible in the event of a stranding to ensure a successful colonization effort.  However, ISSP may or may not serve the interest of any particular individual or group of individuals. Further details are available in your “Understanding the Risks of Space Colonization Supplement” under the heading “International Standard Stranding Protocol Explained.” 

5.3.1. You hereby agree to adhere to all ISSP directives.

Signed:
	X: SCOTT.ERNEST.D.2160.11.12.AF8D321BC890AABE
	X: SCOTT.LUCY.K.GUARDIAN.2160.11.12.25F32D8900CD2

###

	Ernest stared through the panoramic windows at the rail. One end of the iron ore cylinder sitting above his head, feeding into the center of the I.S.S. Endurance’s toroid hull, the other end stretching fifty kilometers in front of him. Its matte black surface disappeared against the black backdrop of the rotating star field, save for the irregular flickering of distant jets holding it in perfect alignment.  He leaned into the glass and squinted, following the rail to its vanishing point, trying to see the distant star it pointed towards.

	Lucy’s giggling broke his concentration.

	Even with the limited coordination of a five year-old, the eighth-Earth gravity aboard the Endurance allowed her to jump nearly two meters. He pushed down on her bald head, nudging her back to the floor. 

	“Just a few minutes and we’ll be on a whole new world, and all you can do is bounce around like a wallaby, a little space wallaby,” he said. She giggled, and jumped again as soon as she regained her footing.[Would iike to have here come down at an angle, slip on to her bottom gently, then giggle… show her scrambling a little to figure things out in the micro-gravity.]
	
	Ernest smiled to see her acting more like herself. She had been crying ever since their heads had been shaved a few hours earlier.  That every bit of mass within the ship had to be added to the rail a thousand times over was too abstract for Lucy. That hair grows back proved insufficient consolation. Microgravity, on the other hand…
	
	“Ladies and gentlemen,” the ship’s intercom sounded, “welcome aboard the Endurance.  Loading and manifesting are complete.” Ernest recognized the Captain’s voice, having interacted with him frequently during their months of preparation. The flight crew was to remain with the colony for the first year during construction of a return rail. Few distinctions had been drawn between crew and colonist.

	“Preflight checks should be complete in five minutes or so and we will be underway. Our calculated jump time is 253 and 1/10th seconds. Again, welcome aboard.”

	Lucy’s cheerful mood faded at the reminder of where she was. She stopped bouncing and buried her face into Ernest’s leg.  He knelt down as she reached to hug him, hurried breaths warming his face as he came close. He mused that she was more than strong enough to hold herself up with a hug in such low gravity, but wrapped his arms around her anyways.

	“Hi, Lucy.” Lucy looked up at the gentle female voice, then shyly buried her face again. “Still worried, cariño?”
	
	“We’re still a little nervous. She’ll be alright,” Ernest responded.

	“No temas, hija.” Lucy looked up briefly, then turned back towards Ernest once more. “Its probably the hair,” Rebecca said, running her hand across her scalp. “That’s alright. I know someone else who’s been a little bit nervous, too.”

	Rebecca reached behind her back, pulling out a stuffed velvet rabbit, a little dirty and well-worn on the cheeks. It wore a tissue paper gray jumpsuit with hand-drawn insignia and a little latex bald-cap to match the bay full of colonists.
“Pickles!” Lucy squealed, clutching the rabbit.
	
	“I’m never going to understand where you came up with that name, but its so silly! I love it!”
	
	“Its the eyes.  She thinks the scrunched up eyes make him look like he just bit into a pickle,” Ernest explained. “You didn’t have to do that. That’s got to be half of your personal effects limit.”
	
	Lucy had cried for hours when Ernest had explained to her how little they could bring with them, and that Pickles had to stay behind. He had opted instead to bring a few reminders of Lucy’s mother, reasoning that though they meant less now, they would mean more later, and stuffed animal could be replaced on-world.

	“I didn’t need to bring much. Anyways, I’d rather have a friend when I get there,” she said, stroking Lucy’s cheek. Lucy reached for Rebecca. Ernest handed her over.

	“I’m not sure that required Pickles, but thank you.”  Ernest watched how tightly Lucy clung to Rebecca. "Sometimes I think she likes you more, anyways.”

	“Don’t be ridiculous.”
	
	“Ladies and gentlemen,” the intercom interrupted, “preflight checks are complete. The flight deck will remain on vox for the jump sequence. Lieutenant Silva. Jump Checklist.”

	The scores of colonists who had been milling about the bay pressed forward towards the windows, squeezing around Ernest and Rebecca. Whether nervousness or a touch of claustrophobia, he wasn’t sure, but his pulse quickened.  He looked at Rebecca. Holding Lucy facing the window with one arm, she pressed her free hand into his.

	The intercom became a jumble of voices, several responding to one in rapid, rehearsed succession. “Navigation systems. G1IK. Chronometer. In tolerance. Alignment. In tolerance. Mass Converters. Enabled. Field Generator. Enabled. Forward Thrust…”

	The ship lurched as it began sliding down the rail.  The rail began glowing as it entered into the middle of the Endurance. The light shown too brightly for Ernest to look towards as the ship consumed the rail kilometer after kilometer, converting its mass into pure energy. As the windows turned opaque to block the light, the last thing Ernest saw was the stars shimmer, then disappear as the Endurance wrapped itself in the field that carried them through the immensity space.

	All sense of motion ceased. Not one of the three hundred colonists made a noise, all staring transfixed at the dark windows, waiting for the moment they became clear again, no one wanting to miss the first glimpse of their new home.

	“Arrival in 5… 4… 3… Standby. Arrival. Navigational checks.” The intercom clicked off. A collective sigh of relief spread across the ship, joined by scattered applause, then quiet again as everyone waited for the windows to clear.

	After a few tense moments, a mechanical hiss broken the silence and the outside became visible. Ernest struggled for a moment to refocus his eyes on, but only the points of starlight interrupted the dark.

	Bodies shifted about to get a better view.  Lucy stretched forward in Rebecca’s arms, twisting and turning to look as far up and down, left and right as she good. She pressed her face against, the glass, each breath leaving a streak of moisture on its cold surface.
A few murmurs began spreading. Ernest couldn’t understand any statements, but the tones were of concern.

	“Daddy, where’s the planet?”

	“Its here somewhere, sweetie. We’ll see it in just a minute. Promise.” Rebecca looked at him, trying to decide if he was just comforting Lucy.  “I don’t know,” me mouthed silently.  She looked back to the blackness.
